Introduction
There are many different units that you can use to define sizes in CSS. This lesson will introduce the most important to you, and show you where to learn about the rest of them.

Lesson overview
This section contains a general overview of topics that you will learn in this lesson.

You’ll learn the difference between relative and absolute units.
You’ll learn when it’s appropriate to use the different units.
Absolute units
Absolute units are those that are always the same in any context. px is an absolute unit because the size of a pixel doesn’t change relative to anything else on the page. In fact, px is the only absolute unit you should be using for web projects. The rest of them make more sense in a print setting because they are related to physical units such as in (inch) and cm (centimeter).

Relative units
Relative units are units that can change based on their context. There are several of them that you are likely to encounter and want to use.

em and rem
em and rem both refer to a font size, though they are often used to define other sizes in CSS. You’ll see both of them often so we’re going to explain both, but as a rule-of-thumb, prefer rem.

1em is the font-size of an element (or the element’s parent if you’re using it to set font-size). So, for example, if an element’s font-size is 16px, then setting its width to 4em would make its width 64px (16 * 4 == 64).

1rem is the font-size of the root element (either :root or html). The math works the same with rem as it did with em, but without the added complexity of keeping track of the parent’s font size. Relying on em could mean that a particular size could change if the context changes, which is very likely not the behavior you want.

Using a relative size like rem to define font sizes across your website is recommended. Many browsers allow users to change the base font-size to increase readability. If at all possible, it is advisable to respect a user’s wishes regarding font size. You’ll learn more about this from the reading assignments.

Viewport units
The units vh and vw relate to the size of the viewport. Specifically, 1vh is equal to 1% of the viewport height and 1vw is equal to 1% of the viewport width. These can be useful any time you want something to be sized relative to the viewport, examples including full-height heroes, full-screen app-like interfaces.