Introduction
You may have noticed that some property values you’ve worked with in CSS have a slightly different syntax. When the value is a word followed by a pair of parentheses () containing information between them - as in background-color: rgb(0, 0, 0) - you’re using CSS functions.

In this lesson, we’ll cover the basics of what a function is and some common ways they’re used in CSS.

Lesson overview
This section contains a general overview of topics that you will learn in this lesson.

Recognize the basic parts of a CSS function.
Learn about the calc(), min(), max(), and clamp() functions and how to use each one.
What is a function and how are they used in CSS?
Similar to programming languages, functions in CSS are reusable pieces of code which perform specific tasks. Functions are passed “arguments” between parentheses, each of which is used by the function in a specific way. Some common examples are:

color: rgb(0, 42, 255);
background: linear-gradient(90deg, blue, red);
Here, the value of color is the function rgb(), which accepts arguments in the form of numbers. It processes those numbers to calculate the rgb color corresponding to the three values given. Similarly, the background property has a value of linear-gradient(90deg, blue, red). linear-gradient generates a gradient image using the parameters it’s been given. It needs at least two color arguments: colors to transition between. Additionally, you can set the angle of direction of the gradient line (like we’ve done in the example), add more color values, etc.

Unlike programming languages you’ll use in TOP, CSS does not allow us to create our own functions. Instead, the language comes bundled with a list of premade functions that will help you solve the most common styling problems.

Besides defining colors, there are several CSS functions that are useful when designing a website’s layout and sizing. These become important when thinking about responsive design.

Let’s go over a few of these functions: calc(), min(), max(), and clamp().

https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/node-path-intermediate-html-and-css-css-functions